Generic Name: isotretinoin (EYE-soe-TRET-i-noyn)
Brand Name: Examples include Claravis and Sotret
Do not use isotretinoin if you are pregnant, may become pregnant, or if you are planning to become pregnant. Serious and sometimes fatal birth defects can occur if isotretinoin is taken during pregnancy. Any fetus exposed during pregnancy could be harmed. There is no accurate way to tell if an exposed fetus has been harmed. Increased risks of miscarriage and premature births have been reported. Isotretinoin can only be dispensed through a special program. You must watch a videotape on contraceptive methods and completely abstain from sexual intercourse or practice 2 forms of birth control beginning 1 month before, during, and for 1 month after use of isotretinoin. You must have 2 negative urine or blood pregnancy tests before you may begin taking isotretinoin. The second test must be done in a lab. You must have a negative result from a urine or blood pregnancy test done in a lab repeated each month before you receive your refill of isotretinoin. If you do not have regular menstrual cycles or you have unprotected sex at any time within 1 month before, during, or 1 month after use of isotretinoin, your doctor or other health care provider will give you special instructions regarding how to take your pregnancy tests. After discussing this medication with your health care provider, you must read, initial, and sign a consent form before taking isotretinoin. Do not sign the consent form if there is anything you do not understand. Additional negative pregnancy tests will be required every month during treatment.
Treating severe acne in patients who do not respond to other medicines. It may also be used for other conditions as determined by your doctor.
Isotretinoin is a retinoid. It works by reducing skin oil production, changing the characteristics of the skin oil, and preventing abnormal hardening of the skin.
Contact your doctor or health care provider right away if any of these apply to you.
Some medical conditions may interact with isotretinoin. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you have any medical conditions, especially if any of the following apply to you:
Some MEDICINES MAY INTERACT with isotretinoin. Tell your health care provider if you are taking any other medicines, especially any of the following:
